[Schema Registry] Add pluggable serializer (#36926)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/schemaregistry/Azure.Data.SchemaRegistry/samples/Sample02_Serialization.md

# Using the `SchemaRegistrySerializer`

The following shows how to use the `SchemaRegistrySerializer` to serialize and deserialize JSON payloads containing Schema Registry schema identifiers and serialized data. The default serialization is JSON, but the serializer is customizable to any type of serialization.

## Table of contents
- [Implementing `SchemaValidator`](#implementing-schemavalidator)
- [Serialize and deserialize JSON data using the Event Hubs `EventData` type](#serialize-and-deserialize-json-data-using-the-event-hubs-eventdata-type)
- [Serialize and deserialize JSON data using `MessageContent` directly](#serialize-and-deserialize-json-data-using-messagecontent-directly)
- [Pluggable object serialization](#pluggable-object-serialization)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Next steps](#next-steps)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Implementing `SchemaValidator`

> The `SchemaValidator` is an abstract class that must be implemented and passed into the `SchemaRegistryJsonSerializer` constructor. This allows you to choose the third-party JSON Schema package you would like to use to generate schemas from .NET types and validate .NET objects against JSON schemas. Implementing both `SchemaValidator.Validate` and `SchemaValidator.GenerateSchema` is required.

Reviewer: You are entirely welcome to disregard this comment, because this sample is very high quality. :)  Since I am 100% new to this domain, I would find a one-sentence description of why someone would want to validate a schema and therefore provide an implementation of the abstract class helpful.  That then gives me a frame of reference to understand the details that follow.  This could also live in the README or somewhere higher-level than this sample.  One could also argue that I need to go read the service docs, which is why you should consider this comment entirely non-blocking :)

```C# Snippet:SampleSchemaRegistryJsonSchemaGeneratorImplementation
internal class SampleJsonValidator : SchemaValidator<string>
{
    public override void Validate(object data, Type dataType, string schemaDefinition)
    {
        // This method throws an exception if the data argument is not valid according to the schemaDefinition.

        // Your implementation using the third-party library of your choice goes here.
        List<Exception> validationErrors = SampleValidationClass.SampleValidationMethod(schemaDefinition, data, dataType);

        if (validationErrors.Count  > 0)
        {
            throw new AggregateException(validationErrors);
        }

        return;
    }

    public override string GenerateSchema(Type dataType)
    {
        // Your implementation using the third-party library of your choice goes here.
        return "<< SCHEMA GENERATED FROM DATATYPE PARAMETER >>";
    }
}
```

The following is a sample implementation:

**This is for illustration only**
```C#
internal class SampleJsonValidator : SchemaValidator
{
    public override void Validate(object data, Type dataType, string schemaDefinition)
    {

>         JSchema schema = JSchema.Parse(schemaDefinition);

Reviewer: Is it a goal to use Newtonsoft to illustrate schema validation?  Is there anything equivalent in `System.Text.Json`?

# Using the `SchemaRegistrySerializer`

The following shows how to use the `SchemaRegistrySerializer` to serialize and deserialize JSON payloads containing Schema Registry schema identifiers and serialized data. The default serialization is JSON, but the serializer is customizable to any type of serialization.

## Table of contents
- [Implementing `SchemaValidator`](#implementing-schemavalidator)

> - [Serialize and deserialize JSON data using the Event Hub EventData model](#serialize-and-deserialize-json-data-using-the-event-hub-eventdata-model)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Serialize and deserialize JSON data using the Event Hubs `EventData` type](#serialize-and-deserialize-json-data-using-the-event-hubs-eventdata-type)
```

The following is an outline of how an implemented `SchemaValidator` may look:
```C# Snippet:SampleSchemaRegistryJsonSchemaGeneratorImplementation
internal class SampleJsonValidator : SchemaValidator
{
    public override void Validate(Object data, Type dataType, string schemaDefinition)
    {
        // Your implementation using the third-party library of your choice goes here. This method throws
        // an exception if the data argument is not valid according to the schemaDefinition.

        List<Exception> validationErrors = SampleValidationClass.SampleValidationMethod(schemaDefinition, data, dataType);

        if (validationErrors.Count  > 0)
        {
            throw new AggregateException(validationErrors);
        }

        return;
    }

    public override string GenerateSchema(Type dataType)
    {
        // Your implementation using the third-party library of your choice goes here.

        return "<< SCHEMA GENERATED FROM DATATYPE PARAMETER >>";
    }
}
```

> The following is a sample implementation using `Newtonsoft.Json.Schema`:

Reviewer 2: I have mixed feelings on calling out `Newtonsoft.Json.Schema` here, even if we're using its syntax for illustration.   On one hand, it's good to point folks at an implementation, and Newtonsoft is a well-known entity.  On the other hand, its a commercial product and I'm not sure that we can even legally do an unofficial endorsement.

Author: Yeah I thought about that as well, my idea was that including a sample implementation seems like it would be helpful for customers. I'll take it out, we could potentially add a fully fake implementation, or just omit this piece.

**This is for illustration only**
```C#
internal class SampleJsonValidator : SchemaValidator
{
    public override void Validate(object data, Type dataType, string schemaDefinition)
    {
        JSchema schema = JSchema.Parse(schemaDefinition);
        JObject jsonObject = JObject.FromObject(data);

        bool isValid = jsonObject.IsValid(schema, out IList<ValidationError> messages);
        IEnumerable<Exception> ex = messages.Select((i => new Exception(i.Message)));

        if (!isValid)
        {
            throw new AggregateException(ex);
        }
    }

    public override string GenerateSchema(Type dataType)
    {
        JSchemaGenerator generator = new();
        JSchema schema = generator.Generate(dataType);

        return schema.ToString();
    }
}
```

> ## Serialize and deserialize JSON data using the Event Hub EventData model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Serialize and deserialize JSON data using the Event Hubs `EventData` type
```

In order to serialize an `EventData` instance with JSON information, you can do the following:

```C# Snippet:SchemaRegistryJsonSerializeEventData
// The serializer serializes into JSON by default
var serializer = new SchemaRegistrySerializer(client, groupName, new SampleJsonValidator());

var employee = new Employee { Age = 42, Name = "Caketown" };
EventData eventData = (EventData)await serializer.SerializeAsync(employee, messageType: typeof(EventData));

> // The schema Id will be included as a parameter of the content type

Reviewer 2: nit:  These comments have no blank line before code and others do.  Either format is good, but we should consider being consistent.

Console.WriteLine(eventData.ContentType);

// The serialized JSON data will be stored in the EventBody
Console.WriteLine(eventData.EventBody);

// Construct a publisher and publish the events to our event hub

var fullyQualifiedNamespace = "<< FULLY-QUALIFIED EVENT HUBS NAMESPACE (like something.servicebus.windows.net) >>";
var eventHubName = "<< NAME OF THE EVENT HUB >>";
var credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();

> // It is recommended that you cache the Event Hubs clients for the lifetime of your

Reviewer 2: <img src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/tIeCLkB8geYtW/giphy.gif"/>

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][code_of_conduct]. For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ][code_of_conduct_faq] or contact [opencode@microsoft.com][email_opencode] with any additional questions or comments.

![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-net%2Fsdk%2Fschemaregistry%2FMicrosoft.Azure.Data.SchemaRegistry.JsonSchema%2FREADME.png)

<!-- LINKS -->
[nuget]: https://www.nuget.org/
[event_hubs_namespace]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about
[object_serializer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.core.serialization.objectserializer?view=azure-dotnet
[json_serializer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.core.serialization.jsonobjectserializer?view=azure-dotnet
[newtonsoft_serializer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.core.serialization.newtonsoftjsonobjectserializer?view=azure-dotnet
[azure_powershell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/
[create_event_hubs_namespace]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-quickstart-powershell#create-an-event-hubs-namespace

> [quickstart_guide]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/dev/mgmt_quickstart.md

Reviewer 2: This doesn't look to be used and is a management-related resource.
